.TH "tui-ftp" "1" "2015-01-28" "Simon Arjuna Erat (sea)"


.SH NAME
tui-ftp (0.3)


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtui-ftp\fP [options] [arguments]
.br
Example: tui-ftp -d /htdocs/form_report.txt -l /mnt/shared/reports/$(date +%F)/


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
tui-ftp is a handler for any of ftp, lftp or sftp.
.br
When uploading, and no remote path is provided, it uploads the the remote root/login dir.
.br
When downloading, and no local path is provided, it downloads to the current dir.
.br
When either down- or uploading files, and only one path is provided, all files will be down-/uploaded to that one.
.br
If there are multiple paths provided, but not for all files, the last path provided will be used for the remaining files.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB[ -c  'command1 ; command2 ...' ]\fP"
Execute these commands when login was successfull
.br
.IP "\fB[ -U NAME ]\fP"
Remote user name
.br
.IP "\fB[ -P PASSWORD ]\fP"
Remote password
.br
.IP "\fB[ -H HOST[:PORT] ]\fP"
Remote hostname or the IP (v4) adress.
.br
.IP "\fB[ -B BATCHFILE ]\fP"
File containing a list of ftp commands.
.br

.IP "\fB[ -A ]\fP"
Forces ftp (only) to use active mode.
.br
.IP "\fB[ -P ]\fP"
Forces ftp (only) to use passiv mode.
.br

.IP "\fB[ -r /remote/path ]\fP"
Change to this remote path
.br
.IP "\fB[ -l /local/path ]\fP"
Change to this local path
.br

.IP "\fB[ -f /local/path/file ]\fP"
Upload this local file
.br
.IP "\fB[ -d /remote/path/file ]\fP"
Download this remote file
.br


.SH FILES
.IP \fB$HOME/.config/tui/apps.conf\fP
Provides $FTP which must contain either ftp, lftp or sftp.
.br
.IP \fB$HOME/.config/tui/tui-ftp.log\fP
Contains all the ftp actions, passwords are masked!
.br




.SH SEE ALSO
.B ftp
(1),
.B lftp
(1),
.B sftp
(1)



.SH LICENSE
GNU General Public License (GPL)
.br
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html


.SH CONTACT
erat.simon@gmail.com
.br
http://linux-scripter.blogspot.com
