.TH "tui-conf-set" 1 "Simon A. Erat (sea)" "TUI 0.6.0"

.SH NAME
tui-conf-set (0.5)


.SH DESCRIPTION
tui-conf-set was designed to ease a developers task on getting values of variables.
.br
As of current state it removes any occouring '"' or '=' in the string returning.
.br
tui-conf-set uses 'grep' to find the matching lines and 'sed' to replace the whole line.
It always saves the VALUE within quotes '"' if there were quotes when it read the value, and remains untouched by the '-c' or '-s' flag.


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtui-conf-set\fP [options] CONFFILE [VARIABLENAME [VALUE]]
.br
\fBtui-conf-set\fP [-icsl] /path/to/file.conf editor gedit
.br

Examples:
.br
		\fBtui-conf-set\fP -l  /etc/default/grub
.br
		\fBtui-conf-set\fP     /etc/default/grub GRUB_TIMEOUT 15
.br
		\fBtui-conf-set\fP -ic /etc/default/grub grub_timeout 15	| Saves valuename as VALUENAME
.br
		\fBtui-conf-set\fP -i  /etc/default/grub grub_timeout 15	| Saves valuename as passed (valuename)
.br
		\fBtui-conf-set\fP -is /etc/default/grub GRUB_TIMEOUT 15	| Saves VALUENAME as valuename
.br

.SH OPTIONS
.OP -l
.RS 4
Shows a list of all variables available in the file.
.RE

.OP -i
.RS 4
Whether the variable name to look for is provided in capitals or not is no longer relevant.
.RE

.OP -c
.RS 4
Saves VALUENAME in capital letters. This overwrites '-s'.
.RE

.OP -s
.RS 4
Saves VALUENAME in small letters.
.RE

.SH LICENSE
GNU General Public License (GPL)
.br
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html

.SH CONTACT
erat.simon@gmail.com
.br
http://linux-scripter.blogspot.com
