.TH "tui-value-set" "1" "2014 04 24" "Simon Arjuna Erat (sea)"

.SH NAME
tui-value-set (0.1)

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtui-value-set\fP [options] CONFFILE [VALUENAME [VALUE]]
.br
\fBtui-value-set\fP [-icsl] [arguments]
.br
Examples:	tui-value-set -l  /etc/default/grub				| Lists the VALUENAME's of CONFFILE
.br
		tui-value-set     /etc/default/grub GRUB_TIMEOUT 15	| Saves VALUENAME as passed (VALUENAME)
.br
		tui-value-set -ic /etc/default/grub grub_timeout 15	| Saves valuename as VALUENAME
.br
		tui-value-set -i  /etc/default/grub grub_timeout 15	| Saves valuename as passed (valuename)
.br
		tui-value-set -is /etc/default/grub GRUB_TIMEOUT 15	| Saves VALUENAME as valuename
.br

Where options are:
.IP "\fB-l|--list\fP"
Shows a list of all variables available in the file.
.IP "\fB-i|--irrelevant\fP"
Whether the variable name is provided in capitals or not is no longer relevant.
.IP "\fB-c|--caps\fP"
Saves VALUENAME in capital letters. This overwrites '-s'.
.IP "\fB-s|--small\fP"
Saves VALUENAME in small letters.
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
tui-value-set was designed to ease a developers task on getting values of variables.
.br
As of current state it removes any occouring '"' or '=' in the string returning.
.br
.br
tui-value-set uses 'grep' to find the matching lines and 'sed' to replace the whole line.
It always saves the VALUE within quotes '"', and remains untouched by the '-c' or '-s' flag.

.SH LICENSE
GNU General Public License (GPL)
.br
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl.html

.SH CONTACT
erat.simon@gmail.com
.br
http://sea.fedorapeople.org
