.TH "tui-browser" 1 "Simon A. Erat (sea)" "TUI 0.6.0"

.SH NAME
tui-browser (0.6.8)

.SH DESCRIPTION
This is
.B 'The one script to rule them all!'
:)
.br
It is ment to give a highly customizeable tool to be used for your own 'file based' projects.
.br
It uses its arguments to match among its root directory folders and files, and changes to path's or executes files, even with argumemts.
.br

It lets you browse through the folders, using either a 'select' based menu (
.B "-m num"
) or a text based menu (
.B "-m text"
- default ).
.br

Also, one can simply provide help test within each folder, by simply providing a file named
.B default.info
within 'each' which should contain only text, and will be read line-wise before showing either the text or numeric menu.
.br

Furthermore it helps to ease the task of catching arguments per file, since no matter how deep the file is, it handles arguments as if it was called directly.
.br


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtui-browser\fP [options] [arguments]
.br

Example:
.IP "\fBtui-browser\fP"
Opens the browser with the current directory as 'root'.

.IP "\fBtui-browser\fP -p '$HOME/path with spaces'"
Opens the browser using provided 
.B -p /path/to/menu
path.
.IP "\fBtui-browser\fP	  -t 'My script manager' \\
.br
		-p '/path/to/menu' \\
.br
		-u 'Contains $(ls|wc -l) entries' \\
.br
		-C /path/to/config/file.conf \\
.br
		${@}"

Starts the browser, using
.B "'My script manager'"
as title, and prints 
.B "'Contains $(ls|wc -l) entries'"
in the username area (top right), and shares the values of 
.b /path/to/config/file.conf 
among all scripts the browser will call, by exporting those variables, using 
.B /path/to/menu
as base/root directory shown in the 
.B "'Location bar'"

.SH OPTIONS
.OP -b STRING
.br
Blacklists a certain string from beeing executed (
.B "text mode only"
)

.OP -C /path/to/file.conf
.br
Full path to the configuration file of your project.
.br
All variables provided with that file, will be exported and are available by all called within the sub dirs of your root.

.OP -d STRING
.br
The 'Directory' section will be labled as 
.I STRING
(
.B "text mode only"
)


.OP -D STRING
.br
For the path based info files,
.I STRING
will be used, rather than
.I default
(default).

.OP -f STRING
.br
The 'File' section will be labled as 
.I STRING
(
.B "text mode only"
)

.OP -l STRING
.br
Renames 
.B "Location:"
to 
.I STRING
(top left)

.OP -m MODE
.br
By default mode 
.B text
is used, you can also change this to 
.B num

.OP -p /path/to/menu/root
.br
Pass this if you want a specific path to be the menu-root.

.OP -n
.br
Do no clear screen before the menu is shown again.

.OP -s /path/to/files/to/include
.br
Sources all files found in 
.I /path/to/files/to/include
and 
.I exports
all VARIABLES found within the files.

.OP -t TITLE
.br
This 
.B TITLE
will be used in the upper left as project title, and also when scripts are executed before the passed arguments.

.OP -u STRING
.br
Changes the default userstring from 
.I $USER
to 
.I STRING
(top right)



.SH LICENSE
GNU General Public License (GPL)
.br
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html

.SH CONTACT
erat.simon@gmail.com
.br
http://linux-scripter.blogspot.com
