.ig
TUI - Text User Interface
Copyright (C) November 2014 by Simon Arjuna Erat (sea), erat.simon@gmail.com
.. ....................................................
.TH "tui" 1 "2014-11-09" "Tui Version 0.7.5"

.SH NAME
TUI \- Text User Interface




.SH SYNOPSIS
#...SY tui
#...OP config|reset|reset-yes|theme
#...RI [ THEMENAME ]
.br
tui-<tab>
.br
source \fBtui\fP
.br
\fBtui\fP config
.br
\fBtui\fP theme default
.br
\fBtui\fP theme floating



.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
An easy way to give your scripts some bling bling is to use TUI, which is an abrevihation for "Text User Interface".
Technicly, it is a framework of commands to help you creating a (due to the limits of scripts) line based text interface.
.br
All the commands start with the prefix 
.I tui-
followed by either the subsection, like 
.I bol-, conf-, str-
or just the command its name/acronym/synonym.
Their names are chosen to represent either their counterparts or to describe what it does. tui-printf beeing the exception, as its original functionaly is now metaphoricly adapted for TUI.
.br

It also helps to start the proper application like editor, file manager or web broswer, so it chooses a GUI application if there is a GUI, and a console application if there is none ($DESKTOP_SESSION).



.SH OPTIONS
Please see their respective help or manpage information for their options and syntax.



.SH USAGE
It is thought for the use via ssh or telnet connections, to provide the enduser an interface.
Or to style up scripts and make them more pleasent to the eye.
.br
While for the basic 'display' task, one only needs one of these four commands:
.RS 6
.br
* tui-header, to make the full line with a blue background and white font (theme:default)
.br
* tui-title, to make inner area with a blue background and white font (theme:default)
.br
* tui-echo, to make the full line with the terminal default colors.
.br
* tui-printf, to make next tui-<command> 'overwrite' the current output.
.RE
The biggest part of the TUI package however, are its additional commands.
.br
If your shell supports tab-completion, type: 
.B tui-
and press tab one or two times to get a list of TUI its commands.
Otherwise you can see a list of the command by typing:
.B ls /usr/bin/tui-*
.br
Simply said, they should perform their task while producing output with the same output-style as tui-echo.
.br
Please see their according helpscreen (tui-<cmd> -h) or its manpage.



.SH USAGE as TOOLS
The tools can also be used to make your terminal usage safer...
.br
	cmd=tui-echo
.br
	for f in * ; do $cmd "$f" "${f:5:${#f}-15}" ; done
.br

then, when i like what i see, i simply type: 
.br
	cmd=mv
.br

press arrow key up twice, and rerun:	
.br
	for f in * ; do $cmd "$f" "${f:5:${#f}-15}" ; done
.br

and have the files renamed as i needed to, with a simple and safe compare of the two values.
.br	



.SH FILES
These files are used as settings and user customization.
.br
Generaly speaking, these are ment so the user configures the 'endpoints' (theme, applications), 
and the developer can focus on writing functions, and simply use tui-edit instead of looking which text 
editor is installed, and wether or not the user is in graphical interface.
.br

.IP \fI/etc/tui/\fP
System wide defaults
.br
.RS 7
.IP \fBapps.conf\fP
(tui-edit, tui-web, tui-terminal)
.br
This stores the default applications tui might want/need to interact with
.br
.I
Provides:
.RS 11
.IP BROSER_CLI
The internetbrowser for the CLI, default: w3m
.IP BROWSER_GUI
The internetbrowser for the Graphical Interface, default: firefox
.IP EDITOR_CLI
Your favorite console editor, default: nano
.IP EDITOR_GUI
Your favorite graphical editor, default: leafpad
.IP FILEMGR
Name of your favorite filebrowser, default: pcmanfm
.IP TERMINAL
Name of your favorite terminal window, default: xterm
.IP TAR_EXT
Default extension used by 
.B tui-tar
, defaults: tar.gz
.IP DD_BS
Bytesize used by 
.B tui-dd
to read and write per cycle, default: 4M
.br
.RE


.IP \fBcommands.conf\fP
(tui*)
.br
This stores the variables of AWK, GREP, LS and SED for cross-system use. It is known that
.B Solaris-Users
must change the AWK variables.
.br
.I Provides:
.br
.RS 11
.IP AWK
Name or full path to the awk to be used.
.IP GREP
Name or full path to the grep to be used.
.IP LS
Name or full path to the ls to be used, this is just to bypass any possible aliases.
.IP SED
Name or full path to the sed to be used.
.br
.RE


.IP \fBcolors.conf\fP
(tui-header, tui-title)
.br
Contains a list of colors.
.br
You could change them, but it is highly recomended not to do so!
.br
.I
Provides:
.br
.RS 11
.IP TUI_COLOR_RESET
Resets any color settings upon echo.
.IP TUI_RESET
Resets any color settings upon echo. (lazy)
.IP TUI_FONT_BOLD
Makes the font bold
.IP TUI_FONT_STRIKE
Makes the font stroke-through
.IP TUI_FONT_INVERT
Inverts the color settings
.IP TUI_FONT_UNDERSCORE
Underlines the text

.IP TUI_COLOR_{BG,FG}_{COLORNAME}
Where the color names are: 
.B BLACK BLUE CYAN GREEN GREY RED WHITE YELLOW 
.br
As in:
.br
TUI_COLOR_BG_WHITE
.br
TUI_COLOR_FG_BLACK
.RE

.IP \fBstatus.conf\fP
(tui-status)
.br
Defines how tui-status will report the different statuses
.br
Note that (for example): TUI_DONE contains the string, where RET_DONE contains an integer value.
.br
They are ment to simplify custom command calls:
.br
	source /etc/tui/status.conf
.br
	tui-status $RET_ON "Enabled some hw setting"
.br
	echo "$TUI_CANC Canceled something"
.br
.I
Provides:
.br
.RS 11
.IP {RET,TUI}_DONE
0
.br
[ DONE ]
.IP {RET,TUI}_FAIL
1
.br
[ FAIL ]
.IP {RET,TUI}_WORK
2
.br
[ WORK ]
.IP {RET,TUI}_TODO
3
.br
[ TODO ]
.IP {RET,TUI}_SKIP
4
.br
[ SKIP ]
.IP {RET,TUI}_NEXT
5
.br
[ NEXT ]
.IP {RET,TUI}_BACK
6
.br
[ BACK ]
.IP {RET,TUI}_CANC
7
.br
[ DONE ]
.IP {RET,TUI}_ON
10
.br
[  ON  ]
.IP {RET,TUI}_OFF
11
.br
[ OFF  ]
.IP {RET,TUI}_HELP
99
.br
[ HELP ]
.IP {RET,TUI}_INFO
111
.br
[ INFO ]
.RE

.IP \fBtui.conf\fP
(tui-new-browser, tui-new-script)
.br
Some basic configurations, like TUI_TEMP_{DIR,FILE}
.br
.I
Provides:
.br
.RS 11
.IP THE_THEME
Name of the default theme for the users, default (blue): default
.IP TUI_THEME_ROOT
Name of the theme for the root user, default (red): default-red
.IP TUI_CONF
Full path to itself
.IP TUI_USER_CONF
Full path to the user configuration file: ~/.config/tui/user.conf
.IP TUI_USER_TEMPLATE
Path to the templates for a new user: /usr/share/tui/user.conf/
.IP TUI_TEMP_DIR
Full path to first temp path existing
.IP TUI_TEMP_FILE
Full path to a file in $TUI_TEMP_DIR
.IP DEFAULT_LICENSE
Default licensing for tui-new-script, default: "GNU General Public License (GPL)"
.IP DEFAULT_LICENSE_URL
URL to the license, default: "http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html"
.RE

.IP \fI~/.config/tui/\fP
Personal user configuration

.br
.RS 7
.IP \fBapps.conf\fP
(tui-edit, tui-web, tui-terminal)
.br
Personal favorite applications, will overwrite the system wide defaults
.br
.I
Provides: 
.B
The same as /etc/tui/apps.conf 


.IP \fBuser.conf\fP
(tui-new-browser, tui-new-script)
.br
Some basic reusable info about you, so you can easly reuse these information inside your own scripts.
.br
.I
Provides:
.br
.RS 11
.IP USER_NAME
Default username shown, default: $USER
.IP USER_EMAIL
Default email used, default: $USER AT $(hostname)
.IP USER_HOMEPAGE
Default URL shown when $USER_HOMEPAGE is used
.IP DEFAULT_LICENSE
Default licensing for tui-new-script, default: "GNU General Public License (GPL)"
.IP DEFAULT_LICENSE_URL
URL to the license, default: "http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html"
.IP TUI_THEME
The actual theme name the user uses, default: $TUI_THEME
.RE



.SH THEME
The themes define the borders and the color used.
.br
Allthough this is a per-user setting, if no configuration was found it uses the system default theme from /etc/tui/tui.conf
.br
.IP default
The default theme.
.br
Border:		"'# |'"
.br
Background:	red
Font:		white
.br

.IP default-red
The default 'root' theme.
.br
Border:		"'# |'"
.br
Background:	red
Font:		white
.br

.IP dot-blue
A dotted border with blue-white color
.br
Border:		"'::'"
.br
Background:	blue
Font:		white
.br

.IP dot-red
A dotted border with red-white color
.br
Border:		"'::'"
.br
Background:	red
Font:		white
.br

.IP floating
 'Empty' theme, no border, no colors
.br
Border:		"''"
.br
Background:	-
Font:		-
.br

.IP mono
A lined theme with black and white color
.br
Border:		"'||'"
.br
Background:	black
Font:		white
.br

.IP witch-purple
A colorfulf and disturbing theme
.br
Border:		"'\./'"
.br
Background:	purple
Font:		cyan
.br

.IP witch-yellow
A colorfulf and disturbing theme
.br
Border:		"'\./'"
.br
Background:	yellow
Font:		black
.br



.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.B tui-bgjob
(1),
.B tui-bol-dir
(1),
.B tui-browser
(1),
.B tui-conf-editor
(1),
.B tui-conf-get
(1),
.B tui-conf-set
(1),
.B tui-dd
(1),
.B tui-download
(1),
.B tui-echo
(1),
.B tui-edit
(1),
.B tui-header
(1),
.B tui-indi
(1),
.B tui-install
(1),
.B tui-list
(1),
.B tui-log
(1),
.B tui-new-browser
(1),
.B tui-new-script
(1),
.B tui-press
(1),
.B tui-printf
(1),
.B tui-progress
(1),
.B tui-psm
(1),
.B tui-read
(1),
.B tui-status
(1),
.B tui-str-usb
(1),
.B tui-tar
(1),
.B tui-title
(1),
.B tui-wait
(1),
.B tui-yesno
(1)



.SH LICENSE
GNU General Public License (GPL)
.br
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html



.SH "KNOW BUGS"
.IP "export LC_ALL=C"
Will cause aligment issues by 1 spacechar on the right hand side border.
.br
.IP "fatal error: printf argument starting with '-'"
.br
If output needs splitting and the new newline starts with a dash, if fails for some reason



.SH BUG REPORTS
Please visit "https://github.com/sri-arjuna/tui/issues" to report bugs,
.br
or send me an email to the adress listed in
.B
CONTACT



#...SH AUTHORS
#...IX Header "AUTHORS"
#..Simon Arjuna Erat (sea), Organisation/Club/Title
#...br
#..http://linux-scripter.blogspot.com



.SH CONTACT
Simon Arjuna Erat (sea), erat.simon@gmail.com
.br
http://linux-scripter.blogspot.com
