\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@comment %**start of header
@setfilename tui.info
@include _version.texi
@settitle Manual 1.0 for Text User Interface (TUI)
@syncodeindex pg cp
@comment %**end of header
@copying
This manual is for TUI (version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED})
Copyright @copyright{} 2011-2015 Simon Arjuna Erat
TUI is licensed as GPLv3.
The manual is licensed as GFDL.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the section entitled
``GNU Free Documentation License''.
@end quotation
@end copying

@documentdescription
gnu,linux,script,bash,ash,csh,zsh,tui,cli
@end documentdescription

@comment ## --------------------------------------------------------------- ##

@titlepage
@title Table of Content
@subtitle for version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}
@author Simon Arjuna Erat (@email{erat.simon@@gmail.com})
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage


@comment ## --------------------------------------------------------------- ##

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top GNU TUI
This manual is for TUI (version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}).
@end ifnottex

TUI is a command based Text User Interface framework for scripts.

Although it requires BASH to be installed, the commands can be called from other SHELLS as well.
But be aware of their differences, such as string formatting and possible exit codes as examples.

@menu
* Introduction to TUI :: 
* Installation :: Optimal installation & de-installation
* Configuration :: What is where done
* Usage :: Some basic description
@c * Display Commands :: The definition of Interface
@c * Interactive Commands :: Convenience for author and user
@c * Advanced Commands :: Tools for the crazy lazy geeks with great ideas
* Appendix :: 
@end menu
@contents

@comment ## --------------------------------------------------------------- ##

@node Introduction to TUI
@chapter Introduction to TUI
@i {TUI is a bash framework to write scripts with a Text User Interface.}

It is a command based framework which wraps the task (executed command name represents task or 
description) into an adaptive Text User Interface (TUI).
It is a framework to be used in the shell or shell scripts, though the usage of scripts is recommended 
to preserve the interface feeling.

It was the core display part of another script-dream I have, and it took me almost 2.5 years 
until i figured that extracting all these displaying functions, provide its very own project.
TUI was born, a command based framework to give scripts an interface like feeling.

This said, when executed alone, a single tui-<command>, it doesn't look that much like an interface.
However, as soon you append a few tui-echo after another or use tui-cat to print a small text file to
the screen, you will feel the difference.

Many script authors write their collection of code helpers, display features or task assistants.
As such functions, they have to copy them to each of the scripts, 
and manually maintain and adjust the function inside that script, 
or update all those scripts just to be sure that function is updated.

TUI jumps in here, providing a 3-Way-Interface between the Author of a script, 
the System (and its installed software) and the User who is executing it.

In fact, TUI is tui!

'tui' is meant to make a directory a simple but highly configurable script menu, and display its 
sub-directories as sections and browse among the tree structure, with its entrance point as root.
All the other commands, are merely the code helpers, display tools, list library, variable providers,
gathered as commands for easy availability, so you can access them straight forward like any command 
in your scripts.

You as the author of the script, don't have to worry about software the user has installed, 
instead you call: tui-edit, tui-filemgr, tui-web or tui-terminal (tui-terminal is GUI only), 
or which distribution the user is using, simply call tui-install to cover package manager 
installations from Arch, over *BSD and Debian to Fedora/Red-Hat to Slackware or Tizen.


It brings together the best of two worlds, the power of the console and the convenience of a graphical
environment.


@comment ## --------------------------------------------------------------- ##


@node Installation
@chapter Installation
@section Getting the code
It is recommended by FHS (http://www.pathname.com/fhs/pub/fhs-2.3.html#USRSRCSOURCECODE) to save source code in /usr/src.
@example
    su
    cd /usr/src
    git clone https://github.com/sri-arjuna/tui.git
    cd tui
@end example

@section A basic installation procedure looks like:
@example
    ./configure --prefix=/
    make
    make install
@end example

By default this will install TUI using the default prefix /usr/local, so the binaries will be available in PREFIX/bin.

@section Uninstall
@example
    su
    cd /usr/src/tui
    make uninstall
@end example


@comment ## --------------------------------------------------------------- ##


@node Configuration
@chapter Configuration
Is done either by the (End-)User, the applications installed and the system the user is using.
Default themes are 'default' for the user, and 'default-red' for root.

First and for the most, you can change the theme.
A theme defines the left and right border, the font and background color of tui-header and tui-title,
as well as the input character for tui-select.

Application invokes by either one of tui-edit, tui-filemgr, tui-web or tui-terminal which will search through
a list of known applications, diverted by cli or gui abilities if the default applications are not found.
If you have WINE installed, it may happened that 'notepad' is started as editor rather than 'scribes'.

If your favorite application is missing on its list, please contact the author of TUI to append it/them.

Calling
@example
    tuirc config
@end example
will bring up a screen to select which conf file to edit.

@section Apps / @sc {$TUI_FILE_USER_CONF}
Upon first call, you will probably see the values listed as variable names with a '$'-prefix.
This setting will use the system defaults set in /etc/tui/apps.conf.
If you are calling the above command as root, you will edit the system defaults, and not the user preferences.
CURLWGET will be 'curl' or 'wget' if found, if neither is found, tui-download will ask to install either one.

@section Loadlist
Can only be edited, but should not be changed or expanded.
This file defines the order in which the user configuration files are read.
You may add custom entries, but be aware these functions or values will not be available if you share your scripts using them.

@section Settings / @sc {$TUI_FILE_USER_SETTINGS}
Here, the behavior or default values for tui-commands is defined.




@comment ## --------------------------------------------------------------- ##


@node Usage
@chapter Usage
This is a summary description of each command, grouped into different categories.

If you are looking for @b {code samples}, try:
@example
    tuirc samples
@end example

@section Display Commands
Usually scripts not only summaries several commands into a single file, it also enables us to display 'selected information'.

This handles the commands that are used to display information to the user.


@subsection tui-printf
This is the heart of TUI, as it provides the core functionality to display everything TUI will display.
But usually you will use it to update the current printed line of the previous/initial call of tui-printf.

It handles up to three (3) quoted strings, printing the first one on the left side.
If there are 2 strings passed, the 2nd will be on the right side.
If there are 3 strings passed, the 2nd will be in the center, and the 3rd on the right side.

This said, @b {tui-printf} provides the core display functionality for all the other core display command's,
such as @b {tui-echo}, @b {tui-header},  @b {tui-title},  @b {tui-cat}, @b {tui-status} and  @b {tui-progress}.

Only the 2 optical dividers,  @b {tui-header} and  @b {tui-title} are colored according to the set theme.

Please see @b {tui-echo} for a simple example.

@subsection tui-echo
Like its regular counterpart @b {echo}, but provides the same output alignment as tui-printf.

Example:
@example
    tui-echo    
    tui-echo one
    tui-echo one two
    tui-echo one two three
@end example

Which would then output as:
@example
    # |                                                                      | #
    # | one                                                                  | #
    # | one                                                              two | #
    # | one                             two                            three | #
@end example


@subsection tui-header
With its full line  background color, tui-header is meant - where applicable - as 'constant' header/footer of a loop based script.
Or just as a one time application information header.

@subsection tui-title
Is using the inverted colors of tui-header, having only the inlay line with a background.

tui-title handles the first string argument differently, as it centers it.
With any further string argument, it behaves like the others.


@subsection tui-list
Is nice handy tool to print different kinds of list.
* no numbering
* Arabic numbering (regular)
* roman numbering (from 1 to 9999)
* alphabetic numbering

@b {Examples}
Lets see how a default call handles an array containing 3 strings
@example
	array=("Some value" "Another one" "Watch out")
	tui-list "$@{array[@@]@}"
@end example

Looks like:
@example
	# | 1) Some value               2) Another one              3) Watch out | #
@end example

Lets keep the array, and just use the roman toggle (**-r**), which looks like:
@example
	array=("Some value" "Another one" "Watch out" "Some value" "Another one" "Watch out")
	tui-list -r "$@{array[@@]@}"
	# | I. Some value             II. Another one             III. Watch out | #
	# | IV. Some value              V. Another one             VI. Watch out | #
@end example

To print a list with only one column, or just two, simply use the number as an option.
The option @b {-1} is great for list with long entry strings.
@example
	$ tui-list -1 "$@{array[@@]@}"
	# | Some value                                   | #
	# | Another one                                  | #
	# | Watch out                                    | #
@end example


@example
	$ tui-list -2r "$@{array[@@]@}"
	# | I. Some value                II. Another one | #
	# | III. Watch out                  IV. a fourth | #
@end example


@subsection tui-cat

This command simply prints the content of a file within TUI borders.

To print the content of a file, simply pass its name or full path as argument.
@example
	tui-cat /etc/os-release 
@end example

As an Easter egg it also provides a typewriter mode, which accepts strings as well.
@example
	tui-cat -t message_file.txt
	tui-cat -t "some string"
	tui-cat -d 0.5 "Message string" ~/message_file.txt "Another string" ...
@end example

One can even pipe output:
@example
	echo "$(uname -a)" | tui-cat -t
	# | Linux cyberdyne.ocean 4.1.2-2-ARCH #1 SMP PRE| #
	# | EMPT Wed Jul 15 08:30:32 UTC 2015 x86_64 GNU/| #
	# | Linux                                        | #
@end example


@subsection tui-progress
A very powerful tool to display several kinds of different progress indications.

From a single animated dash, simple numbering, numbering up to a max value,
and even a progress bar with additional percent display.

Its default animation is an animated dash.
This setup allows to show an animation with an unknown maximum by either time or invokes.
@example
	for entry in $list
	do 	tui-progress "Working with:" 	"$entry"
	done
@end example

Which will be seen as:
@example
	# | Working with:                     entry                     [  |   ] | #
@end example

For a more professional look and feel, one needs also a bit more preparations:
@example
	declare -a list
	list=$(ls)
	count=$@{#list[@@]@}
	tui-echo "Updating the file its timestamp"
	tui-progress -r
	
	for file in "$@{#list[@@]@}"
	do 	tui-progress -m $count "Working on file:" 	"$file"
		touch "$file"
		sleep 0.3
	done
@end example

Which will be shown as:
@example
	# | Working on file:                     file                     7 / 20 | #
@end example

Last but not least, the one view you do expect of a progress - a bar:
@example
	cur=1
	max=87
	while [ $cur -le $max ]
	do	# Optionally, you could use/add '-l' to display the progress percentage.
		tui-progress -b -m $max -c $cur "Working on XY..."
		((cur++))
		echo ""
	done
@end example

Would output (each as a single line):
@example
	# | Working on XY...     [                     ] | #
	# | Working on XY...     [=                    ] | #
	# | Working on XY...     [===                  ] | #
	# | Working on XY...     [====                 ] | #
	
	
	# | Working on XY...     [=          ][ 16.09% ] | #
	# | Working on XY...     [=====      ][ 45.97% ] | #
	# | Working on XY...     [========== ][ 98.85% ] | #
@end example




@subsection tui-status
A nice and handy tool to display the exit code of the previous condition.

Although thought to help to display either success or failure of a task, it provides much more.


Lets display a simple check if a file exist:
@example
	[ -f filename ]
	tui-status $? "File exists"
@end example
Which would output as either of the 2 lines:
@example
	# | File exists                        [  ✓   ] | #
	# | File exists                        [  ✗   ] | #
@end example

It could also be used for wizard like scripts:
@example
	tui-yesno "Do you want to do XY?" && ret=0 || ret=4
	if tui-status "$ret" "Doing XY"
	then	echo todo
	fi
@end example
Which would return the following output, depending on your answer:
@example
	# | Do you want to do XY? (y/n)                y | #
	# | Doing XY                            [  ✓  ] | #
	todo

	# | Do you want to do XY? (y/n)                n | #
	# | Doing XY                            [  »   ] | #
@end example

If you start another command which takes some time before it displays anything, you could use:
@example
	 tui-status -r 2 "Starting something" ; sleep 4 && tui-status $? "Started something now..."
@end example


@comment ## --------------------------------------------------------------- ##

@section Interactive Commands
Ever wanted to start an editor at a users computer, but he had not installed it?

Do not worry, the interactive tools provide a solution for this, and more.

@subsection tui-yesno
One of the most used tools in TUI, a simple bool returning command showing a question to the user.
And easy for the coder to handle.

But see for yourself:
@example
	tui-yesno "Show grub defaults?" && cat /etc/default/grub
	
	if tui-yesno "Show grub defaults?"
	then	cat /etc/default/grub
	fi
	
	tui-yesno "Continue (y) or close terminal window (n)?" || exit 0
@end example



@subsection tui-download
Has the user curl or wget installed, both or none?
Do not worry, this tool handles this, it selects the first command found (or set in the configuration) to download.
While it does show how much data it downloaded (filesize), it cant show a progress bar - this is in plan but very low priority.

Basically one call it simply like this:
@example
	tui-download "http://download.server.com/file.zip"
@end example

@subsection tui-edit
So, you want the user to edit a file, but do not know which editor he has installed?

Call tui-edit, it looks for default editors, if none is found, it searches a list of known ones, 
if none is found it asks the user to install one of the known ones.

Usually, one simply uses:
@example
	tui-edit ./somedir/file.txt
@end example

@subsection tui-filemgr
So, you want the user to see some file, but do not know which file manager he has installed?

Call tui-filemgr, it looks for default file managers, if none is found, it searches a list of known ones, 
if none is found it asks the user to install one of the known ones.

Usually, one simply uses:
@example
	tui-filemgr "$HOME/projects/this"
@end example

@subsection tui-press
Does what it says, asks the user to 'press enter to continue'.

@example
	tui-press
@end example

Looks like:
@example
	# | Press [ENTER] to continue     Press [ENTER] to continue | #
@end example

@subsection tui-read
Well, it reads the user input

Usually this is to get a string of a user, like either one of these:
@example
	answer=$(tui-read "What is your hometown?")
	tui-read "What is your hometown?" > /tmp/answer
@end example
So you then can work with either the variable or the file.


@subsection tui-select
Select an item from passed arguments.
If your 'read' supports it, it wont require 'enter' to select an item which its digit count is as long as the digit count of the arguments passed (ex:: item 10 of 99)
If you want to select item 1 out of 11, you will have to press 'enter' though.

By default, it prints up to 3 values per line and lets you select among it.
@example
	choice=$(tui-select 1 2 3)
	tui-select 1 2 3 > /tmp/choice
@end example

Either of these, look like:
@example
	# | 1) 1               2) 2                 3) 3 | #
	# | > 2    
@end example

However, if you want a only a single column, or just two, you may pass @b {-1} or @b {-2}.
Specially for long menu name selection, this can be a nice trick:

@example
	choice=$(tui-select @b {-1} 1 2 3)
@end example
Will look like:
@example
	# | 1) 1                                         | #
	# | 2) 2                                         | #
	# | 3) 3                                         | #
	# | >	
@end example

Also there might be situation, specially if you are working with dynamically generated lists, that only 1 entry is available.

You might auto select that single entry by:
@example
	answer=$(tui-select -a "I'm all alone!")
	echo $answer
@end example



@subsection tui-terminal
Obviously this will only work in GUI mode and will open the selected/preferred terminal emulator.

@example
	tui-terminal "tui-conf-editor $HOME/.config/user-dirs.dirs"
@end example


@subsection tui-wait
Waits given time (s/m/h), counting down and showing optional message.
This is good to indicate passed times, in case of a timeout or planned delay.

One could be crazy and wait several hours:
@example
	tui-wait 5h "I need to clean up my desktop icons!"
@end example
Showing the full countdown:
@example
	# | I need to clean up my desktop icons!                         4:59:58 | #
@end example

Or some more practical delay between an attempt:
@example
	tui-wait 5m "Could not reach host, trying again in:"
@end example
Showing the full countdown:
@example
	# | Could not reach host, trying again in:                          4:58 | #
@end example


@subsection tui-web
Well, Firefox might be a good choice, but some people do not have it installed, this takes care of it,
just like tui-edit, tui-filemgr, and tui-terminal.

@example
	tui-web "http://www.linux.org"
@end example


@comment ## --------------------------------------------------------------- ##

@section Code Helpers (groups)
Small things to make your life easier, sorted by groups.

@subsection tui-bol-dir
Returns true if passed dir was found or could be created.
If verbose mode is enabled, it shows tui-status.

As in:
@example
	tui-bol-dir -v bin
@end example
Prints output as:
@example
	# | Found: bin                          [  ✓   ] | #
@end example

Likewise for a path that can be created:
@example
	tui-bol-dir -v tmp
@end example
Prints output as:
@example
	# | Created: tmp                        [  ✓   ] | #
@end example

And a path that can not be created (due to missing rights):
@example
	tui-bol-dir -v /a/new/path  || exit 1
@end example
Prints output as:
@example
	# | Created: /a/new/path                [  ✗   ] | #
@end example

@subsection tui-bol-gui
Returns true if the user is in GUI mode.
Returns DE name if verbose.

A basic example could be:
@example
	if tui-bol-gui
	then	filezilla
	else	ftp
	fi
@end example

One could also display which DE the user is running:
@example
	tui-echo "Your GUI/DE is:" "$(tui-bol-gui -v)"
@end example
Which outputs like:
@example
	# | Your GUI/DE is:                      awesome | #
@end example

@subsection tui-bol-root
Returns true if user is root.

@example
	tui-bol-root && \
		echo "You're root" || \
		echo "You're a regular user!"
@end example

@subsection tui-conf-editor
A basic tool to edit a conf file.

@example
	su -c "tui-conf-editor /etc/default/grub"
@end example


@subsection tui-conf-get
Gets the value of a variable from a file.

@example
	CFG=/etc/default/grub
	KEY=GRUB_TIMEOUT
	
	value=$(tui-conf-get $CFG $KEY)
	echo $value
@end example


@subsection tui-conf-set
Set the value of a variable in a file.
Similar as @b {tui-conf-get} but saves a value.

@example
	CFG=/etc/default/grub
	KEY=GRUB_TIMEOUT
	VAL=3
	
	tui-conf-get $CFG $KEY $VAL
@end example

It also provides a verbose mode:
@example
	tui-conf-get -v  $CFG $KEY $VAL
@end example
Which would output like:
@example
	# | Saved in "grub"   GRUB_TIMEOUT=5    [  ✓   ] | #
@end example


@subsection tui-str-bol-conv
Converts '0|1|$?' (return codes) to text.
Like: done/fail ; true/false ; yes/no

True / False
@example
	[ -d /bin ]
	tui-str-bol-conv -t $?
	
	true
@end example

Yes / No
@example
	[ -d /bin ]
	tui-str-bol-conv -y $?
	
	yes
@end example

Done / Fail (in caps)
@example
	[ -d /bin ]
	tui-str-bol-conv -dC $?
	
	DONE
@end example


@subsection tui-str-extension
Returns the last string after a dot, empty if no dot is found.

@example
	for F in *;do 
		EXT=$(tui-str-extension $F)
		echo "This file has the ext: $EXT"
	done
@end example
Could output as:
@example
	This file has the ext: am
	This file has the ext: ac
	This file has the ext:
	This file has the ext: log
	This file has the ext: in
	This file has the ext:
	This file has the ext: md
@end example

@subsection tui-str-genfilename
Generates a numbered file, optionally sets a new file extension.
@example
	template=rawfile.raw
	workfile=$(tui-str-genfilename $template tpl)
	touch $workfile
	workfile=$(tui-str-genfilename $template tpl)
	touch $workfile
@end example
Could output like:
@example
	ls *tpl
	rawfile.tpl rawfile.0.tpl rawfile.1.tpl
@end example

@subsection tui-str-hash
Hashes a passed string to different sha's or md5.
@example
	tui-str-hash "string"
	b80fa55b1234f1935cea559d9efbc39a
	
	hash=$(tui-str-hash "string")
	echo $hash
	b80fa55b1234f1935cea559d9efbc39a
	
	echo "string" | tui-str-hash
@end example


@subsection tui-str-usb
Lets the user select an USB storage and returns the device path. (/dev/sdx)

To let the user select an USB device, simply invoke it like:
@example
	DEVICE=$(tui-str-usb)
@end example
Which could be presented to the user as:
@example
	# | 1) usb-Multiple_Card_Reader_058F63666485-0:0                         | #
	# |                           2) usb-SWISSBIT_Twist_99999999F900011d-0:0 | #
	# | > 2
@end example
Upon selecting an entry, the variable DEVICE would be filled with the device path (ex:: /dev/sdc).

@section Code Helpers (singles)

@subsection tui-asroot
Executes passed (quoted) command as root, uses sudo where applicable or set.



@subsection tui-cp
Copy a file, displays progress bar.

@subsection tui-dd
Thought to write images to usb devices.

Need feedback to cover more use cases.

@subsection tui-mv
Moves a file, displays a progress bar.

@subsection tui-tar
Tarballs a directory or file.


@comment ## --------------------------------------------------------------- ##


@section Advanced Commands
The tools provides in this section are usually for those who just want more.

@subsection tui-bgjob
Executes a script in background.

Prints first string while running, second when done.

To start a script to run in background and print a message while running:
@example
	tui-bgjob "/path/to/script" "Running script" "Ran Script"
@end example
While "Running script" is shown while the script is running, 
the exit status of the script is show with the 2nd string "Ran Script" in the style of tui-status.

While the default animation mode is the animated dash, if you are 'generating' a (larger) file, you might want to display its size:
@example
	tui-bgjob -f "/path/to/generated/file" "/path/to/script" "Running script" "Ran Script"
@end example

If you have a specific filesize to expect, you may change to progress bar display by supplying the expected byte size:
@example
	tui-bgjob -f "/path/to/generated/file" -e 4294967296 "/path/to/script" "Running script" "Ran Script"
@end example


@subsection tui-bgjob-mgr
Executes multiple scripts at once. 

Lets you define how many scripts shall run simultaneously.

Can run in quiet mode and return (as exit code) how many scripts were ended with success.

The basic usage is plain convenience, execute all files in this folder (expecting them to be scripts!)
@example
	tui-bgjob-mgr *
@end example
This will show 'progress' of the working through all these scripts.
However, it will just show if a script is planed to, running or how it ended.


@indentedblock
Something of importance to know is the that the wait option ("-w SECS") has influence 
on the interval it checks if scripts have completed.

The shorter the interval, the faster scripts can be processed, but it should not be set lower than 1 sec for a longer period of time.

The longer the interval, the more time the CPU has to work on its jobs.


The interval should be set to at max 50% of the slowest job expected, and should be no lower than 1 sec.
@end indentedblock

Runs all KSH scripts with an interval of 5 minutes between visual (and actual working-) updates.
@example
	tui-bgjob-mgr -w 360 *.ksh
@end example

If you have just 3 or 4 scripts to monitor, you might like this in a GUI/(D)WM environment
@example
	tui-bgjob-mgr -v window1.sh window2.sh window3.ksh script4.csh
@end example


However, when working with multiple scripts, it may occur than some scripts shall only be executed if some previous scripts were executed successfully.
@example
	TASK="script1.sh script2.sh script3.sh"	
	MAX=$(echo $TASK | wc -w)
	
	RET=$(tui-bgjob-mgr -qc $TASK)
	[ "$RET" -eq "$MAX" ] && \
		./script4.sh
@end example


@subsection tui-install
Can be used to identify what distro the system is.

Is meant to install dependencies that might be found in the distro its repository.

Due to the nature of the different package managers used, 
it is not yet possible to capture each package managers its own verification within TUI,
so that output is (by default and for security) untouched.

For scripts you share, it is recommend to leave the default handling as described here.
@example
	tui-install pluma
@end example

Could output on arch like:
@example
	# tui-install  pluma
	
	# | Installing as dependency:              pluma | #
	resolving dependencies...
	looking for conflicting packages...

	Packages (1) pluma-1.10.2-1

	Total Installed Size:  15.11 MiB
	Net Upgrade Size:       0.00 MiB

	:: Proceed with installation? [Y/n] y
	(1/1) checking keys in keyring                    
	(1/1) checking package integrity                  
	(1/1) loading package files                       
	(1/1) checking for file conflicts                 
	(1/1) checking available disk space               
	(1/1) reinstalling pluma                          
	# | Installed package: pluma            [  ✓   ] | #
@end example


@example
	tui-install -y pluma
@end example

Would output as slick as:
@example
	# | Installing as dependency:              pluma | #
	# | Installed package: pluma            [  ✓   ] | #
@end example


@subsection tui-log
A tool to manage/write your custom logfiles with ease.

As most logfiles provides several basic information on the left side, tui-log has options for that.

To create a custom logfile header, you could use:
@example
	echo "# Logfile for XY, created on DATE" >> "/path/to/logfile.log"
@end example
tui-log -e "logfile.log" "# Logfile for XY, created on DATE"

Because, every writing to a logfile checks first if the current date is found in the logfile.

If that is not the case, it first prints the current date before writing the passed message.
Like this basic usage example shows:
@example
	rm logfile.log
	tui-log -t logfile.log "Logfile created."
	cat logfile.log
	
	#### 2015-08-02 ####
	06:34:09 	 Logfile created.
@end example

Likewise for the other options, date (would be very repetitive, but anyway), time, pid, user ; alone or in any combination.
@example
	tui-log -up logfile.log "What is my name and the pid"
	cat logfile.log

	#### 2015-08-02 ####
	06:34:09 	 Logfile created.
	sea 3821 	 What is my name and the pid
@end example

@comment ## --------------------------------------------------------------- ##

@section tui
This command is the core element and was the main purpose for me to write TUI.

It is THE automated menu you were always looking for.

Define a folder as your home menu, pass that folder as the '-p dir', to use as as browsable menu.
You can even direct access scripts in  copyright/copyleft related information. straight from the command line.

Scripts executed by 'tui' iption / What is it?: have to be in BASH, though, if they are not BASH, you must set the 'SHELL' with '-x' and all files shown must be that SHELL.
Note, that in this case, SHELL could also be: Python or Perl, aside from ash, csh, zsh...

@example
	
@end example


@example
	
@end example



@node Appendix
@chapter Appendix

@section History


@section Idea
In today's world, everything is about presenting. There are many tasks that can be faster accomplished using a script rather than writing an application for it as others require to use it.
This said, it is known many end-users don't like the terminal screen. That is usually because the commands in terminals have their output not very well structured, usually just text-by-text-by-newline-by-text.
This is if you need/want/have to provide scripts for users to use, and make it (a little) easier for them to 'read' the terminal, without to have to write 'presentation' handlers.
Thus user.conf in ~/.config/tui provides variables that may be used for any script that sources tui, same goes for apps.conf, which will provide EDITOR, BROWSER, FILEMGR, TERMINAL with your set favorite applications.
Now in the combination with tui-edit, you don't even need to source tuirc to have tui-edit open the given filename with your favorite editor.



@bye
