.TH "tui-browser" 1 "Simon A. Erat (sea)" "TUI 0.6.7"

.SH NAME
tui-browser (0.7.5)

.SH DESCRIPTION
This is
.B 'The one script to rule them all!'
:)
.br
It is ment to give a highly customizeable tool to be used for your own 'file based' projects.
.br
It uses its arguments to match among its root directory folders and files, and changes to path's or executes files, even with argumemts.
.br

It lets you browse through the folders, using either a 'select' based menu (
.B "-m num"
) or a text based menu (
.B "-m text"
- default ).
.br

Also, one can simply provide help test within each folder, by simply providing a file named
.B default.info
within 'each' which should contain only text, and will be read line-wise before showing either the text or numeric menu.
.br

Furthermore it helps to ease the task of catching arguments per file, since no matter how deep the file is, it handles arguments as if it was called directly.
.br


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtui-browser\fP [options] [arguments]
.br

Example:
.IP "\fBtui-browser\fP"
Opens the browser with the current directory as 'root'.

.IP "\fBtui-browser\fP -p '$HOME/path with spaces'"
Opens the browser using provided 
.B -p /path/to/menu
path.
.IP "\fBtui-browser\fP	  -T 'My script manager' \\
.br
		-p '/path/to/menu' \\
.br
		-U 'Contains $(ls|wc -l) entries' \\
.br
		-c /path/to/config/file.conf \\
.br
		"${@}"

Starts the browser, using
.B "'My script manager'"
as title, and prints 
.B "'Contains $(ls|wc -l) entries'"
in the username area (top right), and shares the values of 
.B /path/to/config/file.conf 
among all scripts the browser will call, by exporting those variables, using 
.B /path/to/menu
as base/root directory shown in the 
.B "'Location bar'"

.SH OPTIONS
.OP -b WORD
.br
Blacklists a certain string from beeing executed (
.B "text mode only"
)

.OP -c /path/to/file.conf
.br
Full path to the configuration file of your project.
.br
All variables provided with that file, will be exported and are available by all called within the sub dirs of your root.

.OP -D STRING
.br
The 'Directory' section will be labled as 
.I STRING
(
.B "text mode only"
)

.OP -d STRING
.br
For the path based info files,
.I STRING
will be used, rather than
.I default
(default).

.OP -F STRING
.br
The 'File' section will be labled as 
.I STRING
(
.B "text mode only"
)

.OP -L STRING
.br
Renames 
.B "Location:"
to 
.I STRING
(2nd line upper left)

.OP -m
.br
When provided, enables
.I textmode
, default is numeric.

.OP -P STRING
.br
The 'Position' section will be labled as 
.I STRING
(2nd line upper right)


.OP -p /path/to/menu/root
.br
Pass this if you want a specific path to be the menu-root.

.OP -n
.br
Do no clear screen before the menu is shown again.

.OP -S
.br
Forces to show the location/position (2nd) line to be shown when executing a script directly.
.br
Most likely you want to use this only when you use
.B -P STRING
or
.B -L STRING
as well.

.OP -s /path/to/files/to/include
.br
Sources all files found in 
.I /path/to/files/to/include
and 
.I exports
all VARIABLES and FUNCTIONS found within the files.

.OP -T TITLE
.br
This 
.B TITLE
will be used in the top left as project title, and also when scripts are executed before the passed arguments.

.OP -U STRING
.br
Changes the default userstring from 
.I $USER_NAME
to 
.I STRING
(top right)


.SH NUMERIC MODE (default)
The numeric mode is for easy and quick access and browse through the 'BASE' (-p PATH) and all its subdirectories.
.br
If one would 'leave' the BASE directory to a toplevel one, tui-browser will exit.
While browsing, only numeric inputs within range shown will be accepted, at any (sub-)level, all content of the current location will be displayed.
With the exception of the 'default.{cmd,info,help}' files, unless changed by
.B -d STRING
is provided, in which case it still hides all 'STRING.{cmd,info,help}' files.
.br
In both modes, 
.I default.{str,info}
will be looked for, and if found, 
.I default.cmd
will be sourced, with all variables and functions provided in the files passed with
.B -c FILE
and
.B -s DIR/FILE
, while
.I default.info
will be shown before the directory content.

.SH TEXTMODE
While the default numeric mode is for quick and easy access, 
the textmode, enabled with
.B -m
gives you a quite diffrent design or layout.
.br
The main diffrence is, one doesnt select among numbers, but must enter the name of the item.
This said, and since one has the ability to write anyway, i also wanted to give you the possibility to block certain words.
Similar to the numeric mode, at all times you have the option to go back or quit, by entering:
.B
b, B, BACK, back, Back or q, Q, quit, QUIT, Quit


.SH LICENSE
GNU General Public License (GPL)
.br
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html

.SH CONTACT
erat.simon@gmail.com
.br
http://linux-scripter.blogspot.com
