2. From the first idea to what it is today
==========================================

2.1. The time before Linux
--------------------------

In the mid 90's, somewhere after C64, but between DOS 5.0 (tm) and Windows 95 (tm) i've met a tool named ##net##.

Beeing a teen at that time, and since the internet was just available at 'speeds' of somewhat around 9.6 baud to 28.8 kilobit, it was a great tool.

	net send 127.0.0.1 "Hello me"
	
Was my most favorite command at school, there were other commands and arguments and options available.

What impressed me the most, was its argument / function layout, it almost seemed natural speaking (despite english not beeing my native language).

Sadly, my BATCH and QBASIC skills werent that trained, and beeing a teenager, i had other interests too, so that idea never got realized.

A bit later, a friend asked me if we wanted to try to write an interface for the console, but we failed badly because we were too much focused on GUI actions, which text just doesnt allow.

Late 2000 those ideas, thoughts and goals lost their focus pretty quickly when i joined the army for some service.



2.2. First year of Linux, Distro-Hopping
---------------------------------------

As you are probaly aware, there is more than just one flavor of linux.

There is more than just the 'brand' (like: RedHat, Debian, Slackware, Arch, etc) but there is also a wide range of DE and WM's.

But in the end, as an enduser and developer, you keep doing the same things/tweaks over and over again (at least after fresh installations), regardless which distro you are on.

Anyway, so around May 2011, Fedora 15 (LoveLock) was just released, i 'joined' Linux, as in, the distro hopping began.

As i been 'at home' among diffrent distros/de/wm combinations, i quickly figured, the most powerfull tool to get things done on any possibe combination, while giving me the power to maintain/change the tool even at init 1, was scripts.

Oh boy did i start writing scripts, at first each script/task for its own distro, then i started to sort them in folders, but could no longer access them easily from anywhere of the temrinal.



2.3. Getting used to Linux, creating script-tools
-------------------------------------------------

After some time, i've had my first attempt of a package (tarball) of scripted tools, which was named 'sea's scripted tools', 
had to rewrite and then renamed to 'sea's script collection'.

But then i thought that name was too long, and wanted to shorten it to Script-Collection, for my first rpm-package attempt.
Had to rename it, and figured that massive changes were required, so it became "script-tools".

Script-tools already introduced the (generaly speaking) today's visual standart of TUI.

However, i was new to FOSS, so it wasnt really ment to be used as its own,
since i wanted to introduce all those tools, tweaking grub1+2, optimize services, 
rebuilt dracut, dynamicly reading html pages to download linux iso files, 
managing (write/add/delete) cron jobs, and even even fun projects such as a 
signature generator or set of custom PS1 were available with it.



2.4. The creation of TUI
------------------------

So, within the last 4 years, i rewrote 'script-tools' 4 times, to extract the 'interface functions' for a 5th time, starting on late september 2013.

Now, 1.5 years after the extraction, i'm happy and proud of TUI, as it exceeded my own expections and provided much more functionality as i initialy planed.

Even THE CORE FUNCTION of script-tools, the menu-browser, became its own command, tui-browser.

tui-browser is the realisation of the ##net## command like behaviour, providing a browsable/selectable/typeable menu, and even passing folders and files as arguments for direct execution.

It was required to write TUI, and all of its 35+ commands that come with it, to even be technicly able to write/realize tui-browser - which is its own masterpiece within my personal masterpiece TUI.




##I hope you have as much fun with TUI as i have! :)##

